Story Recapped here.
Today, I'm going to show you an action, fantasy,
horror film called “Constantine.”
Spoilers ahead!
Watch out and take care.
A man digs through rubble in a desert area
and finds an old spearhead wrapped in a nazi
flag.
As soon as he unwraps the flag, he’s taken
over by an entity and starts moving, void
of free will.
As he crosses the road, a bus slams into him.
The bus crumbles, and the man gets up and
continues walking.
In John Constantine’s world, heaven and
hell are not only real but exist in dimensions
parallel to the human world at a different
plane of existence.
John is an exorcist working with his apprentice,
Chas, finding and banishing demons that misbehave
in the mortal plane.
In a small apartment in Los Angeles, a mother
prepares breakfast for her sick daughter.
She collapses to the floor, screaming, upon
seeing her daughter levitating and snarling.
The family immediately seeks help from men
of faith to save their daughter.
John enters the apartment, and Father Hennesy
meets with him.
He tells John he’s found one that John has
been seeking.
Hennesy tells John he failed to exorcise whatever
is inside the young girl and has called on
him for help.
The possessed girl is tied up to her bed,
and John opens a window, letting sunlight
in.
He produces a talisman that casts a shadow
on the young girl, and the girl snaps at him.
John presses the amulet onto the girl’s
forehead, and it immediately starts sizzling.
The girl begins convulsing and screaming as
John mutters an incantation.
The girl stops shaking, but a silhouette pops
out from her neck, looking ready to tear out
of the girl’s body.
John realizes he must hurry to exorcise the
demon and asks for a mirror.
The family gets a large mirror and helps hold
it above the girl.
John smashes a window and asks Chas to move
the parked car below.
John has the mirror tied to a pulley above
the window and advises everyone in the room
to shield their eyes.
One of the men takes a peak, and he starts
screaming, his hair turning gray.
John uncovers the girl’s eyes, and the demon
escapes, getting trapped in the mirror.
John orders Hennesy to pull the mirror, but
it doesn’t fit through the window.
John takes over, trying to pull the mirror
out, and sees the demon trying to escape.
He puts all his weight in the rope, and the
mirror flies out the window, falling onto
the car, smashing to pieces.
John steps out of the room and sees a sketch
drawing of what looks like a spearhead and
recognizes it as the Spear of Destiny, the
same spear the man earlier found in the desert.
John tells Hennessy that the exorcism was
not standard, and he vaguely predicts something
big will happen.
John leaves, and Chas drives him home.
Police detective, Angela Dodson, confesses
to a priest.
She tells him that she’s killed another
criminal.
She’s concerned about the number of killings
she’s done, saying it feels natural.
She always seems to know precisely where these
bad men are and know the exact moment when
she should pull the trigger.
She wonders if there’s something wrong with
her, and the priest tells him God has something
planned for her.
At home, she has a dream of waking up from
a hospital bed.
She hears the name, Isabel, whispered before
she gets up, sneaking up the stairs to the
hospital roof.
She removes her medical tag, letting it loose
in the wind before she jumps.
She falls, smashing through a glass roof into
a pool of water.
She floats momentarily before waking up back
in her bed, breathing heavily.
The following morning, John Constantine gets
an x-ray of his lungs, and a doctor tells
him he has an advanced form of terminal lung
cancer, only having a short time left to live.
In the same hospital, Angela arrives at the
scene of a suicide.
She uncovers the corpse and the woman looks
exactly like her.
Isabel is her twin sister who had been admitted
to the hospital as a mental patient.
Her colleague tells her Isabel jumped from
the roof, but Angela says she knows Isabel
and she’s not the one to kill herself.
John’s friend, Beeman, arrives at John’s
apartment with an excited grin.
He brings with him a plethora of items and
equipment for John.
Beeman gives John bullet shavings from an
assassination attempt on the pope, holy water
from the river of Jordan, and a screech beetle
that repels demons.
Beeman asks what the new assignment is about,
and John tells him about the exorcism.
John says he saw a demon soldier trying to
exit from the young girl's body into the human
realm.
Beeman is surprised to hear this, knowing
the demons can only control humans and possess
them but can never enter the human physical
realm.
Just to be sure, John asks Beeman to do some
research into this phenomenon.
John and Chas then head to a church, and John
again runs into Angela.
Angela speaks with a priest while John goes
straight for Gabriel.
John sees Gabriel’s dark wings and refers
to it as a half-breed.
Gabriel knows why John has come and tells
John angels still keep track of the most wayward
souls.
Angela asks the priest to give Isabel a catholic
funeral, but the priest says the bishop has
decided against it.
Since Isabel died of suicide and is considered
a mortal sin, she cannot be allowed a Catholic
burial.
Angela tries to reason, but the priest tells
her there’s nothing he can do.
John tells Gabriel about an influx of soul
travel in the mortal realm and asks Gabriel
if God can extend his life.
Gabriel laughs, finding John’s determination
to get into heaven a lost cause.
John reminds Gabriel of all the demons and
hell minions he has banished and sent back
to hell.
He considers his service a guarantee into
the gates of heaven.
Gabriel answers, that all John has done is
not enough.
Self-sacrifice and belief is the only thing
that will get John into heaven.
John complains that he’s already done so
much sacrifice, and he believes in God.
But Gabriel points out that John only knows
of God’s existence, but John doesn’t believe
in the Almighty.
John argues he’s pulled demons out of children
to save their lives, but Gabriel counters
that John has only done this for his benefit
so that he’ll be allowed into heaven.
Meanwhile, Father Hennessy runs his hands
through several newspapers, hearing the news
articles in his head as he touches them.
He goes through a pile of papers before focusing
on one: the suicide of a person with a mental
health condition, Isabel.
Angela reviews footage of Isabel’s death
and hears her mutter Constantine’s name.
She recognizes the name as the rude man in
the church.
As John smokes, he sees someone approach him,
and he realizes it’s a demon covered in
all sorts of insects.
The demon attacks John, sending him flying
across the road.
The demon then warns John to leave the demons
alone.
John tries to repel the demon using the screeching
beetle, and the demon gets hit by an oncoming
van.
John then meets with Chas, and the pair head
to Midnite’s Nightclub.
Inside the nightclub, John sees half-breeds
interacting with one another in peace.
John heads to the back room, where he meets
Papa Midnite.
Midnite is a holy man who has sworn to neutrality,
taking neither the side of heaven nor hell.
John tells him that a full-fledged demon had
attacked him earlier.
Midnite considers this impossible as demons
cannot cross over to the human realm.
This is the rule both sides must agree on
to maintain balance.
The two are interrupted when a demon half-breed,
Balthazar, enters the room.
As he plays with his coin, he addresses Constantine.
John gets insulted and threatens to exorcise
him back to hell.
Midnite steps in, warning both of them that
no hostilities can happen inside the nightclub.
John heads home and Angela knocks at his door.
She has tracked him down and is asking for
his help.
Angela informs John that she believes her
sister Isabel had been murdered.
Angela explains believes that her sister had
been brainwashed into committing suicide.
She further stresses that Isabel was a devout
Catholic and would never have taken her own
life.
John still refuses to help, and Angela leaves.
John sees shadows from his window going after
Angela, and he chases after her.
John decides Angela’s case may have something
to do with what’s happening in heaven and
hell.
He tells Angela about the existence of heaven
and hell, but not in the way most people believe
it.
Angela scoffs at the thought and says she
believes people are evil and need no other
motivation.
John then agrees but asks her to consider
that people can be capable of both good and
evil, but sometimes, get a little nudge from
one of the two sides.
The lights suddenly turn off, and the pair
are stuck in darkness and John takes out a
piece of cloth.
They hear loud gusts of wind from unseen beings
flying overhead.
John lights the fabric, and a large fire blazes
to life, spreading light and exposing the
demons surrounding them.
The demons are burned, screeching, and flying
away.
Angela vomits from the shock of what she had
seen.
John theorizes that demons could be after
Angela, not him.
John asks Angela if she genuinely believes
that Isabel would never commit suicide.
Angela stands her notion that Isabel must
have been murdered.
To know whether Isabel had committed suicide,
John must journey into hell to find her soul.
At Angela's apartment, John prepares a basin
of water and suspends his feet in them.
He asks Angela to leave, and she complies.
Constantine takes Isabel’s cat and stares
into its eyes to establish a connection with
Isabel’s soul.
Constantine’s perception of time slows down.
As time comes to a complete standstill, John
finds himself in hell.
He takes out Beeman’s holy water and keeps
it close for a quick escape.
He makes his way through the hellish landscape
as fiery winds and scorched earth surround
him.
Finally, John sees Isabel at the edge of a
building, and she calls out to him.
Demons approach them from all sides, and Isabel
takes off her medical tag.
It flies in the wind, and Constantine tries
to catch it.
He runs after the flying tag, but the demons
see him.
As Isabel falls from the edge, Constantine
reaches for the tag, and the demons swarm
him.
As he catches the tag, he smashes the holy
water on his chest and appears back in Isabel’s
apartment.
John realizes Angela and Isabel were twins
and tells Angela that Isabel had committed
suicide and hands her the medical tag.
Father Hennessy finds Isabel’s corpse at
the morgue.
He grabs her arm and tries to read into her
memories but a mark suddenly appears on Isabel's
wrist.
Hennessy collapses to the ground in fear upon
seeing this symbol.
He tries to drink from his liquor flask, but
the liquid doesn’t reach his mouth.
He finds a store next door and tries to drink
from wine bottles, but the liquor stays in
the bottle.
He smashes several bottles open, but the alcohol
still refuses to flow out.
Hennessy falls to the floor, choking.
He grabs a bottle opener and stabs his palm.
Balthazar appears, playing with his coin,
watching Hennessy suffer.
Hennessy then starts choking from booze, the
liquor flowing out of his mouth.
Balthazar had manipulated him into thinking
he couldn’t drink anything, but was in fact,
drinking everything he had opened.
Hennessy dies drowned from alcohol.
John explains to Angela that as a kid, he
had seen demons and other evil entities.
His parents, not knowing what to do, had him
treated, which, in turn, made the situation
worse.
Unable to cope with what’s happening to
him, the young Constantine commits suicide.
He was officially dead for two minutes, but
in hell, time moves differently, and he felt
like he had been there for a lifetime.
When he returns to life, he realizes that
everything he could see is real.
Both heaven and hell exist simultaneously
on Earth, at the same time, but in different
planes of reality.
To maintain control over humans, half-breeds
like Gabriel and Balthazar were created.
These can give whispers to humans.
Some can provide bursts of courage, while
others can provide excruciating fear and dread.
Angela then gets a call about Father Hennessy’s
death, and the two head to the scene.
John sees Hennessy and notices a bloody mark
on his palm.
Hennessy had carved out the symbol he had
seen on Isabel on his palm for Constantine
to see.
John takes the symbol and asks Beeman to research
it.
John tries to look for clues in Isabel’s
room.
He believes Isabel would have been smart enough
to leave a clue for Angela.
He says the connection between twins is strong,
and he forces Angela to try and remember anything
that can help with the case.
Angela then remembers how they’d leave one
another secret messages as kids as a unique
way of communicating.
She exhales but her breath fogs up a window,
revealing something written.
John sees the message Corinthians 17.
As they drive, Beeman communicates with them
through the phone and explains that the bible
they should refer to is the bible from hell.
According to the hell bible, Corinthians 17
talks of a son of the devil that will bring
everlasting darkness upon humanity when unleashed.
The symbol on Isabel’s wrist is the sign
of Mammon, the son of the devil.
The bible says that Mammon wants to forge
his kingdom of hell, trumping that of Satan’s.
For this to happen, Mammon must possess a
powerful psychic and must be brought into
this world by a divine being.
Before Beeman could finish, he suspects something
is coming for him.
He hangs up the phone, and insects start coming
out of his eye.
John and Angela rush to Beeman but are too
late.
They see Beeman dead, covered in insects,
spewing out of his mouth and nose.
The man carrying the Spear of Destiny is seen
walking to a car.
He smashes the window before stealing it and
driving towards Los Angeles.
Angela finally reveals that she, too, had
seen things when she was young.
When she saw Isabel getting an outcast and
being treated for mental illness, she denied
seeing the demons.
As she got older, her visions slowly disappeared.
She feels guilty, as she feels like she abandoned
Isabel when she needed her.
She wants to experience hell first hand, knowing
her sister is in there, suffering.
John agrees, and they fill a bathtub with
water.
Angela lies underwater, and John holds her
down.
Angela starts running out of breath and squirms.
She tries to get Constantine off of her, and
she starts to drown.
Time starts slowing down for Angela, and in
a split second, she journeys to hell and back.
She finally understands how she could always
tell where the criminals were and when to
pull the trigger.
She suddenly gets up and runs to Beeman’s
office.
She reaches down and finds Balthazar’s coin.
John arrives at Balthazar’s penthouse, and
John blows through the wall, throwing Balthazar
back.
Balthazar pounces on John and starts choking
him.
John reaches into his suit and pulls out brass
knuckles emblazoned with holy crosses.
John gets the upper hand and subdues Balthazar.
John stands over Balthazar, preparing to exorcise
him, but John threatens he would instead bless
him and send Balthazar’s soul to heaven.
Terrified, Balthazar tells John that the key
to Mammon’s arrival on the human realm is
the Spear of Destiny.
Angela appears behind John, and Balthazar
laughs, saying his only goal was to get Angela
to the building.
John then shoots Balthazar.
John and Angela then make their way down,
discussing the Spear of Destiny and how it
plays into Mammon’s plan.
A figure arrives, standing over Balthazar,
and Balthazar asks to be revived as he’s
done what was asked.
But the figure simply watches Balthazar waste
away.
Angela realizes that with Isabel dead, she
would be the powerful psychic needed for Mammon’s
birth.
She suddenly feels a strange sensation.
Before they could react, Angela is pulled
away through several walls of concrete.
John chases after her, but Angela is dragged
across the building.
She flies through the night sky, and John
is left alone.
John then forces his way into Midnite’s
room and declares that he desperately needs
to use the chair.
Midnite is insulted and pins John to a wall,
digging into his chest.
John tells Midnite that none of the two sides
are following the rules anymore, and his neutrality
has been removed, as the demons are already
making a move.
Midnite finally agrees.
They head into Midnite’s artifact storage
and find a wooden chair used for electric
capital punishment.
John takes off his shoes, and Midnite wets
the floor.
Midnite then takes a live bulb, opening it,
and readies himself to stab electricity through
John.
As Midnite connects the bulb with John, John
sees the man carrying the spear.
John witnesses the man’s journey and sees
him heading to the hospital.
At the hospital, half-breed demons are gathered,
awaiting Mammon’s arrival.
While planning how they’ll fight an army
of half-breeds, Chas chimes telling Midnite
and John that half-breed demons become vulnerable
when their outer skin is washed off with holy
water.
Angela arrives at the pool where Isabel died
and sees the man carrying the spear.
She shoots him, unloading a full magazine,
but it does not affect the man.
John and Chas arrive at the hospital, and
Chas heads to the water reservoir to bless
it, turning it into holy water.
John proceeds to the demons.
Chas drops a blessed holy cross into the water
tank, and it turns into holy water.
John faces the horde of half-breeds and declares
he’ll kill all of them.
John places a lighter at the sprinklers, and
holy water rains on them.
John then dispatches each demon, shooting
them to pieces.
Chas comes in just in time, and the pair head
to Angela.
The man drowns Angela, and she reappears in
hell.
She sees Mammon in the flesh, and it enters
her.
John finds Angela now possessed with Mammon
and rushes in to exorcise the demon.
Angela and John struggle, and Chas helps to
subdue her.
John then starts chanting incantations over
Angela, and it seemingly works as Angela snaps
back to normal.
For a moment, Angela takes a breath, but she
suddenly feels something inside her.
She starts screaming, and they see Mammon
in her stomach trying to claw its way out.
Chas joins John chanting, and Mammon retreats
momentarily.
Chas then suddenly gets thrown back and gets
smashed several times into the floor and ceiling,
getting killed instantly.
John places his arms together, creating a
symbol and the room’s roof seems to open
up.
But suddenly, Gabriel drops down on John.
John finally realizes that Gabriel’s divine
touch will give birth to Mammon as Gabriel
uses the spear to cut open Angela.
Gabriel says that humans have become too complacent,
ignorant of the old ways of belief.
Mammon’s rise would cause much pain and
suffering, and so, those who rise above would
be truly worthy of God’s love.
Gabriel then holds John up, blowing him away,
smashing him into a glass door.
Now truly desperate, John calls on God’s
help.
John takes a piece of glass and slits his
wrists.
As John bleeds, Gabriel takes the Spear of
Destiny and prepares to unleash Mammon.
As Gabriel brings down the blade, time stops.
The Devil himself then appears.
Lucifer makes his way to John, who lays dying.
Lucifer is excited to see John and even allows
him to have one last cigarette.
John then tells Lucifer that Gabriel is in
the other room, about to release Mammon.
Lucifer laughs, believing it to be a trick.
But John tells him to look for himself.
Lucifer then enters the room with the pool
and sees the spear in Gabriel’s hand, inches
away from Angela.
Without hesitation, Lucifer takes Angela away,
saving her from the spear.
Time moves again, and Gabriel is in utter
shock, coming face to face with Lucifer.
Gabriel prepares to smite Lucifer in God’s
name, but Gabriel’s fist stops short.
Lucifer smiles and tells Gabriel God has abandoned
him.
Lucifer then declares hell is still his domain
and banishes Mammon back to hell while he
burns Gabriel’s wings off.
Lucifer returns to John, now ready to take
him to hell.
Lucifer asks what John wants in return for
warning him of Mammon’s plan, and instead
of asking for an extension of his life, John
instead requests Isabel’s soul be sent to
heaven.
And with one gesture, Lucifer agrees and sends
Isabel to heaven.
He then starts dragging John down, but John
suddenly becomes extremely heavy, and he can’t
move him.
The walls open up, and the Kingdom of Heaven
reveals itself, accepting John.
Now that he had committed a selfless sacrifice
for Isabel’s soul, God now accepts him.
Lucifer is angered and pulls John back.
He digs into John’s lungs and takes out
the cancer.
Lucifer declares that John shall continue
living, giving him more time to prove that
John’s soul truly belongs in hell.
John wakes up with all of his wounds healed.
Angela also wakes up, and the two see Gabriel
in the pool.
They see that Gabriel has now been turned
human.
Gabriel entices John to take revenge and hands
him his shotgun, asking John to shoot.
John instead punches Gabriel.
Gabriel winces, experiencing pain for the
first time.
John and Angela then head to the roof, and
John gives Angela the Spear of Destiny for
safekeeping.
Angela agrees, and the two part ways, saying
they’ll meet some other time again.
John stares into the night, realizing that
God does indeed have a plan for him.